packages/osd-eui/wiki/component-development.md, before:

# Component Development

For information on how to design components, see the [component design docs][component-design].

Before working with EUI components or creating new ones, you may want to run a local server for the [documentation site][docs]. This is where we demonstrate how the components in our design system work.

## Launching the Documentation Server

To view interactive documentation, start the development server using the command below.

```shell
yarn
yarn start
```

Once the server boots up, you can visit it on your browser at: [http://localhost:8030/](http://localhost:8030/). The development server watches for changes to the source code files and will automatically recompile the components for you when you make changes.

## Creating Components

There are four steps to creating a new component:

1. Create the SCSS for the component in `src/components`
2. Create the React portion of the component
3. Write tests
4. Document it with examples in `src-docs`

You can do this using Yeoman, or you can do it manually if you prefer.

- [Yeoman component creation guide][docs-yeoman]
- [Manual component creation guide][docs-manual]

## Testing the component

`yarn run test-unit` runs the Jest unit tests once.

`yarn run test-unit button` will run tests with "button" in the spec name. You can pass other
[Jest CLI arguments](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/cli.html) by just adding them to the
end of the command like this:

`yarn run test-unit -- -u` will update your snapshots. To pass flags or other options you'll need
to follow the format of `yarn run test-unit -- [arguments]`.
Note: if you are experiencing failed builds in Jenkins related to snapshots, then try clearing the cache first `yarn run test-unit -- --clearCache`.

`yarn run test-unit -- --watch` watches for changes and runs the tests as you code.

`yarn run test-unit -- --coverage` generates a code coverage report showing you how
fully-tested the code is, located at `reports/jest-coverage`.

Refer to the [testing guide](testing.md) for guidelines on writing and designing your tests.

### Testing the component with Kibana

1. In the `eui` folder, run `yarn link` to create the `@elastic/eui` link package.

2. In the `kibana` folder (and potentially the `x-pack` sub-folder as well, if you are working in x-pack code), run `yarn link @elastic/eui` to install the link package you just created.

3. Start up the Kibana server.

4. Back in the `eui` folder, run `yarn build`. Repeat (just) this step any time you make changes to your EUI component.

## Principles

### Logically-grouped components

If a component has subcomponents (`<EuiToolBar>` and `<EuiToolBarSearch>`), tightly-coupled components (`<EuiButton>` and `<EuiButtonGroup>`), or you just want to group some related components together (`<EuiTextInput>`, `<EuiTextArea>`, and `<EuiCheckBox>`), then they belong in the same logical grouping. In this case, you can create additional SCSS files for these components in the same component directory.

### Writing CSS

We follow Kibana's [CSS style guide][kibana-css] and [SCSS style guide][kibana-scss].

[component-design]: component-design.md
[docs]: https://elastic.github.io/eui/
[docs-yeoman]: creating-components-yeoman.md
[docs-manual]: creating-components-manually.md
[kibana-css]: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/master/style_guides/css_style_guide.md
[kibana-scss]: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/master/style_guides/scss_style_guide.md

## TypeScript definitions

### Pass-through props

Many of our components use `rest parameters` and the `spread` operator to pass props through to an underlying DOM element. In those instances the component's TypeScript definition needs to properly include the target DOM element's props.

A `Foo` component that passes `...rest` through to a `button` element would have the props interface 

```
// passes extra props to a button
interface FooProps extends ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  title: string
}
```

Some DOM elements (e.g. `div`, `span`) do not have attributes beyond the basic ones provided by all HTML elements. In these cases there isn't a specific `*HTMLAttributes<T>` interface, and you should use `HTMLAttributes<HTMLDivElement>`.

```
// passes extra props to a div
interface FooProps extends HTMLAttributes<HTMLDivElement> {
  title: string
}
```

If your component forwards the `ref` through to an underlying element, the interface is further extended with `DetailedHTMLProps`

```
// passes extra props and forwards the ref to a button
interface FooProps extends DetailedHTMLProps<ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement>, HTMLButtonElement> {
  title: string
}
```

Commit message:

Update docs on how to test local EUI in Kibana (#2144)
* Update docs on how to test local EUI in Kibana

* typo

* Update wiki/component-development.md

Co-Authored-By: Caroline Horn <549577+cchaos@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update wiki/component-development.md

Co-Authored-By: Caroline Horn <549577+cchaos@users.noreply.github.com>

* adjustments

packages/osd-eui/wiki/component-development.md, after:

# Component Development

For information on how to design components, see the [component design docs][component-design].

Before working with EUI components or creating new ones, you may want to run a local server for the [documentation site][docs]. This is where we demonstrate how the components in our design system work.

## Launching the Documentation Server

To view interactive documentation, start the development server using the command below.

```shell
yarn
yarn start
```

Once the server boots up, you can visit it on your browser at: [http://localhost:8030/](http://localhost:8030/). The development server watches for changes to the source code files and will automatically recompile the components for you when you make changes.

## Creating Components

There are four steps to creating a new component:

1. Create the SCSS for the component in `src/components`
2. Create the React portion of the component
3. Write tests
4. Document it with examples in `src-docs`

You can do this using Yeoman, or you can do it manually if you prefer.

- [Yeoman component creation guide][docs-yeoman]
- [Manual component creation guide][docs-manual]

## Testing the component

`yarn run test-unit` runs the Jest unit tests once.

`yarn run test-unit button` will run tests with "button" in the spec name. You can pass other
[Jest CLI arguments](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/cli.html) by just adding them to the
end of the command like this:

`yarn run test-unit -- -u` will update your snapshots. To pass flags or other options you'll need
to follow the format of `yarn run test-unit -- [arguments]`.
Note: if you are experiencing failed builds in Jenkins related to snapshots, then try clearing the cache first `yarn run test-unit -- --clearCache`.

`yarn run test-unit -- --watch` watches for changes and runs the tests as you code.

`yarn run test-unit -- --coverage` generates a code coverage report showing you how
fully-tested the code is, located at `reports/jest-coverage`.

Refer to the [testing guide](testing.md) for guidelines on writing and designing your tests.

### Testing the component with Kibana

Note that `yarn link` currently does not work with Kibana. You'll need to manually pack and insert it into Kibana to test locally.

1. In the `eui` folder, run `npm pack`. This will create a `.tgz` file in your EUI directory. At this point you can move it anywhere.
2. In Kibana you have two choices:
    * Point your `package.json` files in Kibana to that file: `"@elastic/eui": "/path/to/elastic-eui-xx.x.x.tgz"` and run `yarn kbn bootstrap`.
    * Alternatively (and often easier), you can run `yarn kbn bootstrap` in Kibana first, then just unpack the `.tgz` file and paste its contents into an empty `/kibana/node_modules/@elastic/eui` folder. This method avoids having to edit all the various `package.json` files in Kibana if you need to run functional tests.
3. Regardless of the method you decide run Kibana with `FORCE_DLL_CREATION=true node scripts/kibana --dev` to make sure it doesn't use a previously cached version of EUI.

## Principles

### Logically-grouped components

If a component has subcomponents (`<EuiToolBar>` and `<EuiToolBarSearch>`), tightly-coupled components (`<EuiButton>` and `<EuiButtonGroup>`), or you just want to group some related components together (`<EuiTextInput>`, `<EuiTextArea>`, and `<EuiCheckBox>`), then they belong in the same logical grouping. In this case, you can create additional SCSS files for these components in the same component directory.

### Writing CSS

We follow Kibana's [CSS style guide][kibana-css] and [SCSS style guide][kibana-scss].

[component-design]: component-design.md
[docs]: https://elastic.github.io/eui/
[docs-yeoman]: creating-components-yeoman.md
[docs-manual]: creating-components-manually.md
[kibana-css]: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/master/style_guides/css_style_guide.md
[kibana-scss]: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/master/style_guides/scss_style_guide.md

## TypeScript definitions

### Pass-through props

Many of our components use `rest parameters` and the `spread` operator to pass props through to an underlying DOM element. In those instances the component's TypeScript definition needs to properly include the target DOM element's props.

A `Foo` component that passes `...rest` through to a `button` element would have the props interface 

```
// passes extra props to a button
interface FooProps extends ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement> {
  title: string
}
```

Some DOM elements (e.g. `div`, `span`) do not have attributes beyond the basic ones provided by all HTML elements. In these cases there isn't a specific `*HTMLAttributes<T>` interface, and you should use `HTMLAttributes<HTMLDivElement>`.

```
// passes extra props to a div
interface FooProps extends HTMLAttributes<HTMLDivElement> {
  title: string
}
```

If your component forwards the `ref` through to an underlying element, the interface is further extended with `DetailedHTMLProps`

```
// passes extra props and forwards the ref to a button
interface FooProps extends DetailedHTMLProps<ButtonHTMLAttributes<HTMLButtonElement>, HTMLButtonElement> {
  title: string
}
```
